Admin Defined Node Disruptions: Tech Preview (#74562)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/machine-config-node-disruption.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * post_installation_configuration/machine-configuration-tasks.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="machine-config-node-disruption_{context}"]
= Understanding node restart behaviors after machine config changes

By default, when you make certain changes to the fields in a `MachineConfig` object, the Machine Config Operator (MCO) drains and reboots the nodes associated with that machine config. However, you can create a _node disruption policy_ in the MCO namespace that defines a set of changes to some Ignition config objects that would require little or no disruption to your workloads.

A node disruption policy allows you to define the configuration changes that cause a disruption to your cluster, and which changes do not. This allows you to have less downtime when making small machine configuration changes in your cluster.

> Note that there are machine config changes that do not require a reboot, regardless of any node disruption policies. For more information, see _About the Machine Config Operator_.

Author: Thanks. We are not allowed to have links in "module" files, due to production restrictions.

For example, you could configure a policy so that sudo reconfigurations do not require a node drain and reboot. Or, you could configure your cluster so that updates to `sshd` are applied with only a reload of that one service.

////
The following is a planned feature

> You could also allow the removal of mirroring rules from an ICSP, ITMS, IDMS object without workload disruption.

Reviewer: Assuming these are changes to `/etc/containers/registries.conf`, the feature in its current state already allows for this.

Author: @djoshy @sergiordlr Was the registries.conf changes part of the feature QE tested? I didn't see it in the [Polarion test cases](https://polarion.engineering.redhat.com/polarion/#/project/OSE/workitems/testcase?query=trello%3AMCO%5C-507).
I would love an example node disruption policy for registries.conf changes, if it was.

Reviewer: I don't think there is a specific test for it. You can treat it like a regular file, and give it a None action, making any changes to it disruption less. You'll see by default it has a Special action which is the "old" policy for changes to the /etc/containers/registries.conf file

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * post_installation_configuration/machine-configuration-tasks.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="machine-config-node-disruption_{context}"]
= Understanding node restart behaviors upon machine config changes

By default, when you make certain changes to the fields in a `MachineConfig` object, the Machine Config Operator (MCO) drains and reboots the nodes associated with that machine config. However, you can create a _node disruption policy_ that defines a set of changes to some Ignition config objects that would require little or no disruption to your workloads.

> A node disruption policy allows you to define the configuration changes that cause a disruption to your cluster, and which changes do not. This allows you to reduce node downtime when making small machine configuration changes in your cluster. To configure the policy, you modify the `MachineConfiguration` object, which is in the `openshift-machine-config-operator` namespace. See some example node disruption policies in the example `MachineConfiguration` objects that follow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A node disruption policy allows you to define the configuration changes that cause a disruption to your cluster, and which changes do not. This allows you to reduce node downtime when making small machine configuration changes in your cluster. To configure the policy, you modify the `MachineConfiguration` object, which is in the `openshift-machine-config-operator` namespace. See the example node disruption policies in the example `MachineConfiguration` objects that follow.
```

[NOTE]
====
There are machine configuration changes that always require a reboot, regardless of any node disruption policies. For more information, see _About the Machine Config Operator_.
====

After you create the node disruption policy, the MCO validates the policy to search for potential issues in the file, such as problems with formatting. The MCO then merges the policy with the cluster defaults and populates the `status.nodeDisruptionPolicyStatus` fields in the machine config with the actions to be performed upon future changes to the machine config. The configurations in your policy always overwrite the cluster defaults.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> The MCO does not validate whether a change can be successfully applied by your node disruption policy. As such, you are responsible to ensure the accuracy of your node disruption policies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The MCO does not validate whether a change can be successfully applied by your node disruption policy. Therefore, you must ensure the accuracy of your node disruption policies.
```

====

> For example, you could configure a node disruption policy so that sudo configurations do not require a node drain and reboot. Or, you could configure your cluster so that updates to `sshd` are applied with only a reload of that one service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, you can configure a node disruption policy so that sudo configurations do not require a node drain and reboot. Or, you can configure your cluster so that updates to `sshd` are applied with only a reload of that one service.
```

You can control the behavior of the MCO when making the changes to the following Ignition configuration objects:

// I used this wording for the objects to match the previous section in the assembly: file:///home/mburke/openshift-docs/_preview/openshift-enterprise/mco-node-disruption-policy/post_installation_configuration/machine-configuration-tasks.html#what-can-you-change-with-machine-configs.
* *configuration files*: You add to or update the files in the `/var` or `/etc` directory.
* *systemd units*: You create and set the status of a systemd service or modify an existing systemd service.
* *users and groups*: You change SSH keys in the `passwd` section post-installation.
* *ICSP*, *ITMS*, *IDMS* objects: You can remove mirroring rules from an `ImageContentSourcePolicy` (ICSP), `ImageTagMirrorSet` (ITMS), and `ImageDigestMirrorSet` (IDMS) object.

include::snippets/machine-config-node-disruption-actions.adoc[]

// Examples taken from the test cases: https://polarion.engineering.redhat.com/polarion/#/project/OSE/workitems/testcase?query=trello%3AMCO%5C-507

[id="machine-config-node-disruption-example_{context}"]
== Example node disruption policies

> The following are example `MachineConfiguration` objects that contain a node disruption policy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example `MachineConfiguration` objects contain a node disruption policy.
```
